Éy swáyel, Teathquathla tel skwíx.
Good day my name is Cortney Russell
and I am from Shxwhá:y Village.
I am a current student at the University of the Fraser
Let's go take a look at the Indigenous Student Center
S'ólh Shxwlèlí te i – This is "Our Place."
There are two centres
one here in Chilliwack and one in Abbotsford
Indigenous Student Centre, also known as the "ISC",
exists to create an inclusive environment for UFV First Nations, Métis, and Inuit students.
The ISC staff are here to support you.
If we can't directly provide what you're
looking for or fully answer your questions,
we will refer you to someone who can.
I'm standing in the Gathering Place, which was built in 2012
in consultation with local Knowledge Holders, Si:yams and Chiefs to reflect the traditional homes of the Stó:lō people.
Stó:lō is a Halq'eméylem word that means river.
The Stó:lō are people of the river who have lived in the territory extending from Yale to Langley since time immemorial.
You can see the sunken floors  surrounded by seating.
The window coverings and sliding door close the home in the evening and overnight, helping us maintain Stó:lō protocols.
The design of this space reminds us that we are on the site of the oldest longhouse in S’ólh Téméxw.
It was called Qoqolaxel, which means "watery eaves."
The name refers to a channel built into the roof that collected water,
which could be released on the heads of the raiders in the middle of the night.
Both locations of the Indigenous Student Center also feature Indigenous teaching gardens,
and original artwork like this carving by Stan Greene, known as Ay:iye.
The baby mountain goat has big eyes to watch over the Gathering Place.
Its single horn reminds us that we are all unique.
This house post, Eagle, was carved by Rocky LaRock, called Eyies’lek, more than 40 years ago.
For many years it stood in the medical office of Dr Norman Todd, who served the Indigenous people in Chilliwack,
witnessing healing and good care by the doctor.
The post carries that to the ISC.
Often students find healing in their academic path.
Plus it's a great spot to get my homework done with comfortable study spaces and a full computer lab.
The Indigenous Student Centers are very special to me.
It's like a home away from home where I can connect with my culture,
learn from the stories of the Elders who are on hand,
and meet other indigenous students from my community.